---
title: "SEO friend or foe"
date: 2021-5-5 16:21:00
author: "Brandon Brown"
image: '../../images/images-front/SEOfriendorfoe.png'
tags:
  - web
  - reference
  - SEO
---

# SEO Friend or Foe

In this article we will talk about a few things.

1. [What is seo?](#Whatisseo)
2. [How does it work?](#Howdoesitwork)
3. [How does it help you?](#Howdoesithelpyou)
4. [What tools are out there?](#Whattoolsareoutthere)
5. [Where to go next?](#Wheretogonext)

<a name="Whatisseo"></a>

### What is seo?

Seo or search engine optimization, yes we all know "seo" is good but what is it exactly and what does it do for us? Well this is what determines your ranking on search engines like Google or Duck duck go. Of course the better you rank the higher you appear on google search results which in turn is better for your business whatever that is because more people will see it and therefore more people will visit your blog, sign up for your newsletter purchsae your product whatever the case.

<a name="Howdoesitwork"></a>

### How does it work?

Let's get into this so how does it work? Well there are a few things that go into this like "keywords" Sounds obvious right? Well let's use this blog for example this post in particular talking about seo the way I have this set up is so the title of my post are my "keywords" so in essence if someone is searching SEO my post should show up in the list eventually. 

Next we can talk about "backlinking" which is a way that you can link to your other posts on your website which helps google and other search engines crawl your website for "quality content" and "relevant information" this one is a little more difficult and you can play around with it a bit to get it right. 

<a name="Howdoesithelpyou"></a>

### How does it help you?

So how does all this help you? Well that is easier to explain SEO helps you rank higher on google. Think of it like this when you go on google and search for something how often do you look on any other page besides the first one? Not very often and most people don't. If you want your website to be seen you need to be on page one or two, of course page one is better.   

<a name="Whattoolsareoutthere"></a>

### What tools are out there?

Well this is where we can talk about two different tools we can use here which I'll break down a bit and possibly do an in depth review later for each one. 

1. ***[Google analytics](https://analytics.google.com)***
2. ***[Google search console](https://search.google.com)***

We will start off with the google anayltics this toold is useful for a number of reasons it can give you some very detailed information from how many new or returning users you have visiting your site what pages are visited most often how much time is spent on each page and a whole slew of other things that can really help you fine tune parts of your site and direct traffic to where it is you want or need them to go. 

This can useful in so many ways because it will help you identify what pages are being viewed most so you can take that and figure out what you did on that page that got you so much attention or maybe what keywords were used that helped get you so much traffic in this dat and age information is more valuable than money as long as you know how to use it. 

Next is google search console, this one I don't have as much experience with from what I have seen and the usage I've had with it is you can get information on your website how it ranks with google if it's not "indexed" then why it is not. "indexed" for context just means that it is being listed and shown in google search results this just like anything else will need some time to get information and once you start to gather the information it can be a real game changer. 

<a name="Wheretogonext"></a>

### Where to go next?

That question is one that is easy and hard to answer, in the short this information will not make a huge difference but it over time after you start to gather data and infromation you can identify trends then make changes based on the information you have to make sure you stay relevant and on top of the list. Remember not many go past the first page on google so that is where you want to be. 

**Stay tuned for in depth review of both tools listed.**

*If you'd like to join the community and make your own posts on here and share your experiences Reach to me VIA social media or Email and I'd be more than happy to feature your writings!*
